So, guys, now let us understand the definition of page front, a page table dictates that a physical
page is not present in a frame that is the rendered invalid, but for this particular physical page
is not set.
Then a special signal is raised to the CPU by the memory management unit called Trappe.
This signal is also called as page fault.
So now let us see the demand paging scheme combined with the page fault in totality with the help of
a diagram somehow.
Let us go through the example which illustrate the concept of demand paging, and for that let us continue
with the same configuration of the system that is watching at the space of the process is 16 bytes virtual
at what size is four bids.
That size is four bytes.
Main memory size is 32 bytes and the virtual address is decomposed into two parts of two bits each.
So number of bits required for the offset is two bits.
So we have taken the same system configuration which we have taken in order to explain the concept of
paging now for demand paging.
We will continue with the same system configuration.
So you can see in this diagram on the left hand side, we have virtual memory pages for a process.
So the process which will address the space is fragmented and before virtual memory pages.
And following is the page table of a process.
But there are other components of the system, such as you have C.P.U, you have a desk and you have
main memory.
Now let us suppose that during the course of execution of a program, the CPU generates a virtual address
nine.
Right now, the first two bits of this virtual address will be used as an indexing into the page table.
So the second index of this page table will be hit, right?
Now, the world champions number two maps to the physical page number two, but it's valid, invalid,
but is not set.
It means that this physical page is not present in the main memory, but it is present on the disk.
It means that in this tape, no TV pitch for signal is raised by the amamou to the CPU when CPU receives
the baseball signal from the main memory unit, the CPU.
Look at the physical page number two on the disk.
And when the CPU locate the physical page, number two on the desk works this physical page from the
disk into the main memory.
Now, which frame in the main memory is choosing to load this particular page depends on the page replacement
algorithm that is being used.
It might be possible that there could be some other physical page which belong to some other process
already.
So that particular physical page could be swept out of main memory and saved on the disk because it
has to vacate the frame number three ofman memory so that a new page which is being bought from the
disk could be loaded in this frame.
So this is called swipe part.
That is taking the page out of the main memory and setting it back on the desk is called stepping out
of a physical page from the main memory, whereas bringing a new page from the disk into the frame of
our main memory is called Swipe In.
Right.
So you can see in step number five, Beachport has been solved.
And since the page has been brought into the main memory, now the staple of this process needs an update
since the physical pain number two now has been loaded in the frame.
Number three of main memory, the peace table will be updated as follows.
Right.
The valid invalid bid will be set from zero to one and the same number will be said to three.
So you can see that after step number six page front has been completed, not the usual paging scheme
will be applied.
And the which will address that is generated by the CPU will be mapped to the physical address, as
usual.
So this is how demand page works.
So let me out with all the steps of the unpegging.
In the first step, Sepehr generates virtual address and the second step we do frame look up in the
table and assuming that the physical page is not present already in the main memory.
Peaceful signal is generated by the memory management unit to the CPU CPU, having received the page
signal in step number for CPU, will look at the physical page on the desk.
And once the physical page on the disk is located using appropriate page replacement algorithm, the
physical page is loaded in a most appropriate frame in the main memory.
And finally, in step number six, peace table is updated to reflect that the physical page has been
brought in the main memory.
So you can see the page is quite easy.
So demand allows that only required physical pages of a process are kept in the main memory because
memory is a scarce resource and need to be utilized intelligently to be shared by all the processes
running on the system.